---
layout: post
title:  "BHS: First 3 Weeks of Placement"
date:   2018-08-11 12:00:00 +1030
categories: MTeach bhsPlacement
---

In my first three weeks of placement at Blackwood highschool I was mostly adjusting to the new environment, learning the ins and outs, and getting to know the students. By the end of the third week, I had:
 - started teaching a year 10 maths class, a year 11 general maths class, and I a few lessons of a year 11 chemistry class,
 - begun regularly observing a year 12 maths methods class, a year 12 chemistry class, and two year 12 general maths classes.
 
 # Year 10 Maths

In the first week we started the topic of statistics with the year 10 maths class with an activity on interpreting data, we got the students to go on gapminder and find something interesting, then present it to the class. Then in week 2 we gave them the summative assignment and started helping them through it step by step. I made some videos (flipped learning) to extend some students into some programming.
 
 # Year 11 General Maths
 
I started the trigonometry topic, they had covered bearings and I went through the cosine rule, the sine rule, heron's rule, and some problem solving (worded questions).

 # Year 11 Chemistry

I introduced the stoiciometry topic and went through atomic mass and isotopes used to calculate relative weight of elements. Then ran a burning magnesium practical for using mole ratios to determine empirical formulae.


TODO: Flesh out the discussion, and illustrate with evidence.






 







