---
layout: post
title:  "Year 10 Maths (BHS)"
date:   2018-08-12 12:00:00 +1030
categories: MTeach bhsPlacement yr10maths
acara: [ACMSP248, ACMSP249, ACMSP250, ACMSP253]
---


# First 3 Weeks

In the first three weeks I was still getting to know the class, and still getting aclimatised so I didn't yet feel very comfortable innovating or trying different things/ coming up with my own ideas, so i let my mentor teacher drive the teaching for the most part. We discussed how to start the statistics topic, they wanted to start with an open ended question focused on some workplace data to try and get the students to explore the data and find something interesting. After some discussion I suggested using (Gapminder)[https://www.gapminder.org/tools/], and after taking a look at it my mentor teacher got on board with that idea.

So in the first week we started the topic of statistics with an activity on interpreting data. We got students in groups to choose a chart type at random out of a cup, go on (Gapminder)[https://www.gapminder.org/tools/] and find something that sparked their interest, and present on it using their chart type  we got the students to go on gapminder and find something interesting, then present their findings to the class at the end of the week. This served as an intro to the topic, as well as an open-ended activity to push them outside of their usual comfort zone and present to their peers.

In week 2 we gave them the summative assignment for the topic and started helping them through it step by step. I made some videos (flipped learning) to extend some students into some programming.

In week 3 we helped them finish off their assignment, and on the last day of week 3 we introduced the next topic: indices. I quickly went through the index laws.



# Week 4

We started off with some basic worksheets to practice using the concepts around index laws, and I produced some extention activities for those students already on top of the algebra who would be bored. One of the students took this extension activity and knocked it out of the park, showing me a construction I had never seen before.

# Week 5

In week 5 my mentor teacher along with a sizable portion of the class were away on a week long ski trip excursion. The week started low with a lesson in which the class was very unenthused. So I decided to introduce them to a concept I personally love: silver rhombic dodecahedra, which was a big hit. I even linked it to some index laws with derviving the silver ratio for A-sized paper, and talking about other similar derivations for golden ratioed rectangles. I also continued other students on alternative extention activities. I didn't want to move too far ahead with indices while some of the class were away.
Jason away on Ski Trip, did dodecahedra, ups and downs, etc.

# Week 6

Mentor teacher and students returned from ski trip. Did crash course on indices for those that were away on ski trip, pushed others to try formative investigation that a few students had gotten some valuble learning out of. Meanwhile, we developed the index law test, and decided to give the students an option to choose between either doing the test, or a directed investigation in the same class. Over both weeks 5 and 6, I had the students very split up with different groups working on different things, trying to tailor to each students interests. It worked, to some degree. There was a group of students who where uncomfortable with the unorthodox activities and who would have been much more comfortable simply doing textbook questions... but I think it was still good to push them out of their comfort zone.

# Week 7

Monday --- something
Wednesday ---  Test/ Investigation.
Friday --- intro to quadratics with penny circle activity.

# Week 8

Quadratics, PAT-M.



# First 3 Weeks

# Week 4

# Week 5

# Week 6




TODO: Flesh out the discussion, and illustrate with evidence.






 







