---
layout: post
title:  "Personal Statement (C&M Core: Seminar 8)"
date:   2018-04-07 12:00:00 +1030
categories: MTeach CMcore seminar
tags: 6-2
---

The Seminar 8 task was to: 

1. Read Chapters 1 (already read) and 6 of Churchill et al. (2013)[^Churchill2013].
2. Watch the powerpoint presentation Australian Curriculum Seminar 8 (available on CANVAS), and reflecting on my Seminar 8 experience, respond to the following questions:
 - What teacher traits do you identify with?
 - Of the 7 APST Standards which do you already associate with and why?

4. Use the 3 key domains of teaching from the APST, *Professional Knowledge*, *Professional Practice* and *Professional Engagement* to structure the first stages of your personal statement.

5. Begin working on your Personal Statement: My philosophy of teaching - what kind of teacher am I/do I want to be and why? What is the role of a teacher in the process of learning? and post this to your e-portfolio, remember this is very much a first attempt and will continue to change and develop as you grow as an educator.

EDIT (17 July 2018): I had a go and drafted a personal statement on 16 March 2018. Although I originally started by structuring it around the 3 key domains of teaching from the APST, as I edited it evolved beyond that, although some remnants of it remain and each of the domains are still discussed, just not used for structure. This ended up going through one or two more re-writes, but ended up with a relatively nice finished product which I include below. Originally I had uploaded this to [the splash page of my eportfolio]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link index.md %}), but since then I have come to understand what a personal statement is better, and in hindsight I realise what I had there was a good summary of my personal values. So I aim to write a more teaching-practice based personal statement with examples of my teaching for the splash page, but I will keep the values statement here as I think it still has some value.

<h1 id="statement">Personal Teaching Statement</h1>
  
  <p>I aspire to be the kind of teacher that creates a safe environment 
in which students can interact and learn. <!--(<a href="{{ site.baseurl 
}}/apst#apst-4">APST 4</a>)--> I think achieving this goal will be a 
lifelong journey, and not an easy one. Three core values of mine sit at 
the centre of my strategy for achieving this goal:
  <ul>
    <li><a href="#lifelong-learning">Lifelong Learning</a></li>
    <li><a href="#transparency">Transparency</a></li>
    <li><a href="#dont-assume">Inclusive Language and Behavior</a></li>
  </ul></p>
  
  
  <h2 id="lifelong-learning">Lifelong Learning</h2>
    
  <p>In order to create a safe environment for students to interact and 
learn I will need to tackle obstacles of many different types: social, 
cultural, academic, bureaucratic, political. Perhaps most importantly 
of all I will need to embrace and encourage constant and ongoing 
self-reflection and constructive criticism. Naturally, these processes 
will lead to a life of constant learning <!--(<a href="{{ site.baseurl 
}}/apst#apst-1">APST 1</a> and <a href="{{ site.baseurl 
}}/apst#apst-2">APST 2</a>)--> and development <!--(<a href="{{ 
site.baseurl }}/apst#apst-6">APST 6</a>)--> on my part as I constantly 
strive to improve. I embrace this, and actively seek it, relishing each 
chance to learn and improve.</p>

  <h2 id="transparency">Transparency</h2>
  
  <p>I value transparency highly, and aspire to be as transparent as 
possible in my teaching as well as in my personal development. 
Providing students with indepth feedback <!--(<a href="{{ site.baseurl 
}}/apst#apst-5">APST 5</a>)--> is crucial for supporting learning, and 
I think being transparent in my assessment tasks can support this goal 
well. My hope is that transparency can not only improve feedback to 
students, but also demonstrate my dedication to integrity and 
encouraging collaboration. My hope that transparency will encourage 
collaboration applies not only to collaboration with students, but with 
colleagues, parents, and the community at large as well. I hope that 
through transparency I can also find ways to encourage stakeholders to 
give me feedback on how I can improve my teaching. I expect interaction 
with colleagues, parents, students, and the community at large <!--(<a 
href="{{ site.baseurl }}/apst#apst-7">APST 7</a>)--> to provide some of 
the most useful information for continual improvement as a teacher, 
which is my day-to-day goal even while my ultimate goal remains to 
create a safe environment in which students can interact and learn.</p>
  

  <h2 id="dont-assume">Inclusive Language and Behavior</h2>
  
  <p>I think thoughtful behavior and use of language are powerful tools 
for communicating to those around us that they are safe, not being 
judged, and welcome. Although sometimes these things can be subtle, I 
believe the impact of these subtleties can be anything but. Small and 
perhaps seemingly innocuous adjustments to our behavior and use of 
language can create massive shifts in the way people around us feel and 
perceive us. I think developing keener awareness of the impact of my 
own behaviors and use of language, and making continual adjustments, 
will be key to creating environments in which students can feel safe 
and welcome, as well as being important in developing professional 
relationships with colleagues, parents, and more.</p>








References:

[^Churchill2013]: Churchill, R., Ferguson, P., Godinho, S., Johnson, N. F., Keddie, A., Letts, W., Mackay, J., McGill, M., Moss, J., Nagel, M. & Nicholson, P. (2013). *Teaching: Making a difference*.

[^Brady2012]: Brady, L., & Kennedy, K. J. (2012). *Assessment and reporting: Celebrating student achievement*.

[^Bruniges2005]: Bruniges, M. (2005). An evidence-based approach to teaching and learning. *Australian Council for Educational Research --- Conference Archive*.

[^Reid2013]: Reid, Alan (2013, August). Please resist the PISA effect. *professional EDUCATOR*, 12(4):24-26