---
layout: post
title:  "C&M Core: Seminar 1"
date:   2018-01-27 19:47:00 +1030
categories: CMcore seminar
---

The Seminar 1 task was to upload the APST, the SACE course outlines for my relevant specialisation areas, to read two papers {% cite Black2010 %} and {% cite Masters2014 %} and Chapter 2 of the {% cite Churchill2013 %} textbook, and write a reflection responding to the question "From your experience of Seminar 1, and reading Chpt. 2, what historical features do you see as influencing the current SACE curriculum?".

I've uploaded the APST [here]({{ site.baseurl }}/files/APST.pdf), and linked them on the [Standards]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link apst.html %}) page as well.

I've uploaded the SACE course outlines for Chemistry:

 - [Stage 1 Chemistry]({{ site.baseurl }}/files/SACE/2018Stage1Chemistry.pdf)
 - [Stage 2 Chemistry]({{ site.baseurl }}/files/SACE/2018Stage2Chemistry.pdf)

and for Mathematics:

 - [Stage 1 Essential Mathematics]({{ site.baseurl }}/files/SACE/2018Stage1EssentialMathematics.pdf)
 - [Stage 1 General Mathematics]({{ site.baseurl }}/files/SACE/2018Stage1GeneralMathematics.pdf)
 - [Stage 1 Mathematics]({{ site.baseurl }}/files/SACE/2018Stage1Mathematics.pdf)
 - [Stage 2 Essential Mathematics]({{ site.baseurl }}/files/SACE/2018Stage2EssentialMathematics.pdf)
 - [Stage 2 General Mathematics]({{ site.baseurl }}/files/SACE/2018Stage2GeneralMathematics.pdf)
 - [Stage 2 Mathematical Methods]({{ site.baseurl }}/files/SACE/2018Stage2MathematicalMethods.pdf)
 - [Stage 2 Specialist Mathematics]({{ site.baseurl }}/files/SACE/2018Stage2SpecialistMathematics.pdf)

First, I read the two papers, the {% cite Masters2014 %} paper could be summarised by making the point that although assessment can be viewed from many different perspectives and in many different contexts, its purpose is always the same:

{% quote Masters2014 %}
The fundamental purpose of assessment in education is to establish and understand where learners are in an aspect of their learning at the time of assessment.
{% endquote %}

According to {% cite Masters2014 %} there has been a great deal of division and argument in the education academia about various perspectives on assessment, which is appropriate in a given context and which is not and so on, and {% cite Masters2014 %} calls for some unity from the community, a banding together and a recognition that despite our differences and disagreements at the end of the day we are all trying to achieve the same goals.

The {% cite Black2010 %} paper talked about how although overarching teaching theory and policy can be useful, it often overlooks the crucial step of implementation in the classroom. This emphasises the importance of considering what happens "Inside the Black Box" of the classroom. The discussion in {% cite Black2010 %} is in strong agreement with the perspective of {% cite Churchill2013 %} and has a great deal of appeal to me personally due to its foundation in pragmatism. It focuses on achievable steps that could concretely improve on existing eduction, specifically steps that could (and should) be taken to translate insights from education theory into classroom practice. This translation is a crucial and perhaps sometimes overlooked step.

Chapter 2 of {% cite Churchill2013 %} gives a historical overview of teaching in Australia. This overview gives perspective to the way in which different stakeholders influence how eduction is carried out in a number of ways. To answer the question "what historical features do you see as influencing the current SACE curriculum?", the section on curriculum (pages 53-55) of {% cite Churchill2013 %} is particularly relevant. As {% cite Churchill2013 %} note the similarities between the current SACE curriculum and the curriculum in the late 1800's is remarkable in broad terms -- both have a focus literacy, numeracy, and some social knowledge. The specific social knowledge component has changed dramatically (from the `mighty British Empire' to what is now SOSE and such), but the perceived purpose to educate about social behaviors and expectations is still there. The early twentieth century changes in the curriculum, focusing more on the economic stakeholders --- preparing people for jobs --- is still visible in the current curriculum, with not only behavioral training (punctuality, subordination) occurring in schools but also subjects such as business and accounting being  explicitly offered at a school level now. Many other subjects also focus on application or job-based examples and contexts for problems, although this is of course not exclusively due to the mentality of preparing people for jobs but also founded in the educational theory of "authentic problems". Perhaps most interesting are the recent changes in curriculum in the 1970s, where the focus became very much more on equity as a reflection of the changing social values. Equity had up until this point been sorely mistreated, with certain cultural, racial, and socio-economic backgrounds being severely disadvantaged. Although other aspects of the changed curriculum have reverted (the current SACE curriculum has moved back towards long lists of required knowledge, for example), it is encouraging to see that the changes in social values surrounding equity are still reflected in the current curriculum, with significant emphasis placed on the importance of equal opportunities, for everyone, explicitly acknowledging the historically disadvantaged position of Aboriginal and Torrens Straite ISlander and Children with disabilities. 

Writing this post also served to help me learn how to implement a number of things in jekyll/ markdown including uploading/ linking files, citations, etc. so in that sense it also contributed to my learning experience. Lifelong learning, as they say, and loving it.

References:

{% bibliography %}
